The ability to communicate threats,
risks, vulnerabilities, or incidents and
possible solutions is a valuable skill for
security professionals.
In this video, we'll focus on various
communication strategies that can help
you engage with and
convey key ideas to stakeholders.
Let's start with visuals.
The use of visuals to tell a security
story can help you communicate
impactful data and metrics.
Charts and
graphs are particularly helpful for this.
They can be used to compare data points or
show small parts of a larger issue.
Using relevant and
detailed graphics can help you develop
the story you want to tell stakeholders, so
they can make decisions that would
help protect the organization.
While visuals are a compelling way
to capture the attention of your
stakeholders, some issues
are best explained in an email or
even a phone call.
Be mindful of the sensitive
information contained in these types
of communications.
For security purposes,
it's important to communicate
sensitive information with care.
Be sure to follow the procedures outlined
in your organization's playbooks and
always make sure to send emails to the
right email recipient, as it could create
a risk if the wrong person receives
confidential security information.
One challenging thing about emails is the
potentially long wait time for response.
Stakeholders have many responsibilities.
This means they may
sometimes miss an email, or
fail to respond in a timely manner.
In these instances, a simple phone call or
instant message may be a better option.
My experience in security has taught me
that sometimes a simple instant message or
call can help move a situation forward.
Direct communication is often better
than waiting days or weeks for
an email response to an issue that
requires immediate attention.
When appropriate, take the initiative
to follow up with a stakeholder if they
haven't responded to
an email in a timely manner.
It sounds simple, but
a friendly call can often prevent
a major issue from occurring.
It's important to stand out
in the security profession,
especially if you don't have
previous experience in the industry.
Visual representations, emails, and
phone calls are great ways to showcase
your written and
verbal communication skills.
The visual aspect shows your
ability to put metrics and
data together in an impactful way.
If you don't receive a timely
response from a stakeholder,
following up shows initiative.